# MapReduce

### Project Overview

We will implement a simplified version of Googles MapReduce pipeline, used to process large splits of work across multiple mapper processes,aggregates intermediate results into hash tables, and launches reducer processes that each handle a disjoint portion.

- Main
    The main will act as the controller for the MapReduce project.
    1. Accepts input
    2. Use opendir and readdir for I/O and keep track of filenames to distribute evenly among child processes
    3. Dispatch # of child processes to run the exectuable
    4. Dispatch requested # of reducer processes to run `./reduce` exectuable, wait till completion before forking them all.

- Map
    The map phase is the parallel processing phase which will transform raw input data into key value pairs.
    1. Get args for output file 
    2. For every requested file, read every log line and increment the request count of the given ip 
    3. Store results to the outfile
    4. Return either 0 or 1 (fail/success)

- Reduce
    This is the final step that will take the data set of key-value pairs generated by Map and summarize them into a smaller data set
    1. Recieve input for a directory to read and a file to write to.
    2. Read files in the read dir into a hash table
    3. Go through it and aggregate together in another table 
    4. Write the resulting table to the outfile
    5. Return either 0 or 1 (fail/success)

### Assumptions/Constraints

- n_reducers <= n_mappers` (To optimize performance by minimizing network data transfers)
- Neither map nor reduce will spawn more processes than the number of input files
  No nested directories
- `./intermediate` and `./out` are given to us
- Number of mappers or reducers is less than one and cannot have less than one mapper or reducer

### Work Split

Document the share of work that each group member did here. If you worked solo, please indicate so.

Team members

- Abdullahi Abdoullah abdou028
- Sakif Khan khan1022

### AI Use

Document any AI use here. Refer to the writeup or the class syllabus if you are unsure of what is acceptable AI usage.
